#summary Nice tradition of wealth redistribution

= Introduction =

In real life, parents raise children. Children later help parents when they become old.
It's a distribution of help, law of conservation of energy, if you wish. First, you help others, then others help you.

In open source world many projects seek donations, because it's very hard to work on something if you spend time on it, and it doesn't give you means for living.

We decided to donate to projects we use directly each release.

= Projects we use =
Below is a list of projects and their use in OGS.
== Libraries ==
  * ALURE
    OpenAL auxiliary library.
  * CEGUI
    GUI.
  * mt19337ar
    Architecture independent random number generator.
  * OGRE
    Renderer.
  * OIS
    Input.
  * OpenAL Soft
    Sound.

== Tools ==

  * 7zip
  Archives.
  * Bash
  Scripting.
  * CMake
  Build system.
  * Coreutils
  Various utils for Bash.
  * Cygwin
  UNIX-like shell under Windows.
  * Doxygen
  Documentation.
  * [FreeType]
  * [GCC]
  * [gprof]
  * Make
  Building what build system done.
  * Mercurial
  Version control system for code.
  * MinGW
  GCC compiler under Windows.
  * patch
  Patching sources to fit our needs.
  * rsync
  Copying around.
  * SVN
  Version control system for data.
  * vim
  Editor of choise.
  * VirtualBox
  Testing.
  * wget
  Automated build scripts.
  * xdg-utils
  Open URLs.

== Distributions ==

  * Arch
  * Debian
  * Fedora
  * Mandriva
  * Mint
  * openSUSE
  * Slackware
  * Ubuntu

= Donations =
== 2010-05-28 ==
OGS Mahjong 0.7 release.

As a first step, I decided to donate to two major projects we use. And more for CEGUI just because CrazyEddie is very helpful.

  * OGRE: $3.78
  * CEGUI: €9.26